- Data generated by us, projects, companies needs to be stored somewhere, may be files etc. However, in-order to search something, we will ahve to open all the files, which is inefficient.
- This is where Database comes into picture. It is the container for storing data.
- However, to access the data stored in DB, we need a SQL to interact and that is SQL.
- We, other applications, thied party system etc can all interact with database using SQL as language. However, the databases need to be stored, managed and hosted somewhere and that is DBMS.
- DBMS is a mgmt system that hosts the database in a secured and intercative manner.
- BI tools like power BI etc, when connecting to a database in some DBMS like mysql, they write query behind the scene to talk and fetch data from the databases.
- Database is a container to store data, schema is category with the database, tables, views are all objects.
- In Relational databases, data is stored in rows and columns format, just like excel. Here the data is stored row-wise.
- Real-time example is storing all the spices in individual container (tables), the self where you store all these is database.
- The database need to be hosted on a server (Powerful PC with compute and storage). When you use MS SQL Server in brower, it will be hosted in some remote server that we will not have access to. But if you download to local desktop, it will be hosted on our computer.
- Another example, when you use foundry, it will be hosted in AWS server, managed by PG&E DBAs.